# readme.md
```
##assignment1

Markdown was extremely confusing at first.  I honestly think i get it though.

I think this is the __way__ to do it.  This is my **first** coding class in years.  It was visual basic combined**with**Cplus.


A. Information systems is defined in three different yet similar ways. 1. An information system (IS) can be defined technically as a set of interrelated components that collect, process, store and distribute information to support decision making and control in an organization. 2 Information systems are combinations of hardware, software and telecommunications networks that people build and use to collect and distribute useful data, typically in organizaional settings. 3 Information systems are interrelated components working together to collect, process, store and disseminate information to support decision making, coordination, control, analysis and visualization. which all focuses on two ways of describing information systems: the components that make up an information system and the role components play in an organization. 5 major components of information systems are Hardware, Software, Data, People, processes. The first 3 are technology. These components collect, store, organize and distribute data throughout the organization. The last two are part of networking communication. These components develop the entire system and make it work. The role of information systems is to collect, store, organize and distribute data throughout the organization. As technology has developed, this role has evolved into the backbone of the organization, making information systems integral to virtually every business and is continuing to increase its role. 
The Mainframe era was the begining. In the 1950 these computers were big as rooms and were used to for calculations, storing and organizing large volumes of information that were tedious to do by hand. In the late 1960s, Manufacturing Resources Planning (MRP) systems were introduced. This software, running on a mainframe computer, gave companies the ability to manage the manufacturing process, making it more efficient. . IBM became the dominant mainframe company.  Continued improvement in software and the availability of cheaper hardware eventually brought mainframe computers (and their little sibling, the minicomputer) into most large businesses.
The PC revolution was introduced to the world in the 1975 the first microcomputer was announced on the cover of Popular Mechanics: the Altair 8800. Its immediate popularity sparked the imagination of entrepreneurs everywhere, and there were soon dozens of companies manufacturing these “personal computers.” The most prominent of these early personal computer makers was a little company known as Apple Computer, headed by Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak, with the hugely successful “Apple II.” Not wanting to be left out of the revolution, in 1981 IBM teamed with Microsoft, then just a startup company, for their operating system software and hurriedly released their own version of the personal computer simply called the “PC.” Small businesses finally had affordable computing that could provide them with needed information systems.Microsoft developed the Windows operating system, with version 3.1 in 1992 becoming the first commercially successful release. Typical uses for the PC during this period included word processing, spreadsheets, and databases. These early PCs were standalone machines, not connected to a network.
In the mid-1980s, businesses began to see the need to connect their computers as a way to collaborate and share resources. Known as “client-server,” this networking architecture allowed users to log in to the Local Area Network (LAN) from their PC (the “client”) by connecting to a central computer called a “server.” Computers were now seen as tools to collaborate internally within an organization. These networks of computers were becoming so powerful that they were replacing many of the functions previously performed by the larger mainframe computers at a fraction of the cost. It was during this era that the first Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) systems were developed and run on the client-server architecture. An ERP system is an application with a centralized database that can be used to run a company’s entire business. 
 The United States Department of Defense created and funded ARPA Net (Advanced Research Projects Administration), an experimental network which eventually became known as the Internet. Initially, the Internet was confined to use by universities, government agencies, and researchers. Users were required to type commands (today we refer to this as “command line”) in order to communicate and transfer files. The first e-mail messages on the Internet were sent in the early 1970s as a few very large companies expanded from local networks to the Internet. The computer was now evolving from a purely computational device into the world of digital communications. in 1989, Tim Berners-Lee developed a simpler way for researchers to share information over the Internet, a concept he called the World Wide Web. In 1991 the National Science Foundation, which governed how the Internet was used, lifted restrictions on its commercial use. Corporations soon realized the huge potential of a digital marketplace on the Internet and in 1994 both eBay and Amazon were founded. The digital world also became a more dangerous place as virtually all companies connected to the Internet. Computer viruses and worms, once slowly propagated through the sharing of computer disks, could now grow with tremendous speed via the Internet. A whole new industry of computer and Internet security arose.
 This new type of interactive website, where you did not have to know how to create a web page or do any programming in order to put information online, became known as Web 2.0. This new stage of the Web was exemplified by blogging, social networking, and interactive comments being available on many websites. The new Web 2.0 world, in which online interaction became expected, had a major impact on many businesses and even whole industries.  Technology moved so fast that policymakers did not have enough time to enact appropriate laws.
 Ray Ozzie, a technology visionary at Microsoft, stated in 2012 that computing was moving into a phase he called the post-PC world.Cloud computing provides users with mobile access to data and applications, making the PC more of a part of the communications channel rather than a repository of programs and information. Innovation in the development of technology and communications will continue to move businesses forward.
 Can Information Systems Bring Competitive Advantage?  Walmart’s rise to prominence is due in large part to making information systems a high priority, especially in their Supply Chain Management (SCM) system known as Retail Link.ing $14.3 billion on sales of $30. This system, unique when initially implemented in the mid-1980s, allowed Walmart’s suppliers to directly access the inventory levels and sales information of their products at any of Walmart’s more than eleven thousand stores. Using Retail Link, suppliers can analyze how well their products are selling at one or more Walmart stores with a range of reporting options.Today Walmart continues to innovate with information technology. Using its tremendous market presence, any technology that Walmart requires its suppliers to implement immediately becomes a business standard.




B. facebook is an information system i use everyday. the hardware of this information system is my cell phone device. the software is google play operating system. The data are statuses shared by users. People are the users social networking on the platform for varies reasons, most to interact with people at any time. The process can be either writing a status, directly messaging someone, posting a picture or a video.
C. The accomplishments of the Client side of A client-server architecure is the capibilty to easliy share documents or information to specific and a controlled amount of people that can be easily edited by those included to do so (notably Github). The server side is to keep the information system private and convenient for users. Helping its users convey their needs quickly. What Github desktop means to the client-server architecure is that it presents a way to convey information using a GUI (Graphic user interface) instead of command lines or web browsers. Which makes it sound like it could be more useful and easier for people who arent familiar with coding but still need the information that is shared on information systems like github.
D. Github is considered a cloud computing because it has multiple services to users through the internet like version-control and collaboration platform for software developers such as a wikis and basic task management tools for every project, also is a command line tool, GitHub provides a Web-based graphical interface. The only cloud computing i think i used besides facebook is instagram (share photos, buy a wide list of things, seek knowlegde about specific professions, experience a wide range of professions daily work lives and more). 
